[boy breathing heavily]
It'll be fine.
He's gonna beat
the shit outta me.
I said. it'll be fine.
I'm... I'm gonna get the belt.
No. you're not.
I will.
[distant dog barking]
[sniffling]
Just go to your
room. and stay there.
[footsteps receding]
- [dog barking] -
[vehicle approaching]
Free Gift Cards and Tech Items with
Southwest Points: www.fairylandshop.me
[door slamming shut]
[father sighs]
I'm back on patrol
in 30 minutes.
So. talk fast. What happened?
You know what happened.
Yeah. well. I wanna
hear it from you.
I was buying pot
from this other kid.
He tried to rip me off.
and we got into a fight.
That's what you're going with?
- Okay.
- I'm telling the truth.
No. No. you're not.
I think Tommy was
buying the drugs. not you.
I think you happened to walk by.
saw what was going on.
- and started punching.
- Tommy didn't do anyth...
I talked to the kid
you beat up. Joel.
and the officers who
got called to the scene.
I'm not stupid.
And if you and Tommy
weren't my sons.
you'd both be in
juvie right now.
You're not gonna hurt him.
[scoffs]
- [refrigerator door
opens] - [bottles rattling]
[beer cans click open]
[slurping. sighs]
Did I ever tell you about
that time I stole a candy bar?
I was...
ten. [chuckles]
Grandpa found out.
made me give it back.
made me apologize
to the cashier.
And then. we went home.
Just before I got out of
the car. man. he just...
He broke my jaw.
There was blood everywhere.
Grandma thought I was dead.
My mouth was wired
shut for two months.
Everybody knew why.
It was humiliating.
If you know what it
feels like. then why?
That's not why
I'm telling you this.
Okay. yeah. I've hit you.
And I've hit Tommy.
But never like that.
[choking up] Not even close.
I mean. maybe I go too far. I...
I don't know. I just...
[sighs]
I don't know.
But I'm doing a little
better than my father did.
[swallows hard]
And you know.
when it's your turn...
I hope you do a
little better than me.
[father breathes
deeply. sniffles]
[door opens. closes]
[♪ pensive theme music playing]
[♪ theme concludes]
[bottles clinking]
[patrons chattering]
[door opens. closes]
[knocking]
Oh. The new guy.
Been here two months. Seth.
[Seth] Like I said.
Got somethin' for me?
I'll be fucked.
[toys clattering]
My grandkids are
gonna love these.
- How'd you find 'em?
- Searched the old homes
out by Hoback.
I searched those homes.
Well. I know where to
look 'cause I'm a smuggler.
and you're a...
I wasn't always this.
[toy blocks thud]
I was a cop.
Milwaukee PD.
[sniffing] So. a
trade's a trade.
We can make what you want
and have it to you by. uh...
Friday.
No. I need it by tomorrow.
Vanilla or chocolate?
Say vanilla. it's easier.
Vanilla.
Oh. I need one more thing.
Relax. You got a lot of 'em.
[♪ light music playing]
[blowing]
[power tool whirring]
[♪ light music
continues playing]
[♪ strumming guitar slowly]
- [birds chirping] -
[distant dog barking]
- [door opens]
- [Tommy] Joel!
- What happened?
- Oh. where'd you come from?
Painkillers. she's
alright. Come on.
- [Joel] Painkillers?
- No. no. no.
No. no. no. leave it.
Leave it. don't touch it.
[Joel] Tommy. what happened?
She was working KP
and she burned her arm.
Well. how?
I pushed it right
up against a pot.
You did this on purpose?
I was like. "Here we go."
and then I fucking went.
- What? Why?
- No one saw. I was on my own.
And I took it off and it
was all red and melting
and gross.
You know what it
smelled like? Pork.
- Who let this happen?
- What do you mean. "let"?
- Who saw this comin'? I was eating my damn dinner.
- Ow! [wincing]
- Oh. it hurts.
- Okay.
- Ow!
- Easy. baby girl.
- Easy. easy.
- Dr. V ran over to the clinic.
He's gonna come by
here with another shot.
[Joel] Ellie.
[Ellie breathing heavily]
I just really wanted to
wear short sleeves again.
I'm sorry. I'm really sorry.
[shushing] It's okay.
It's okay. You're okay.
[Joel kissing]
[♪ gentle music playing]
[sighs]
- [Joel] Goddammit. Seth.
- Hey.
Hey.
"Happy 15th Birthday. Eli."
[Joel groaning]
Well. let's hope Seth
bakes better than he spells.
[mouth full] He does.
- [chuckles]
- It's really good.
[Ellie laughing]
Oh. right. Uh. stay right there.
I got somethin' else for
you. Close your eyes.
- Keep 'em closed.
- [sighs]
Okay. turn toward me.
And... open.
- Whoa. what's this?
- Some folks call this a "gee-tar."
[Joel chuckles]
I borrowed one of your
drawings for inspiration.
Uh. took a bit of restorin'.
Real bone saddle here.
Lacquered the whole body
and. uh. used a
Dremel to carve the. uh...
Well. that's a rotary drill.
Or could be a saw.
dependin' on the tip.
But. actually. it's a
pretty versatile tool.
Anyway.
I had promised I
would teach you. so...
- Um...
- Oh.
Uh. well. if you
want a lesson later...
Let me hear something.
- What do you mean. play it?
- And sing.
No. No. no. no. no.
No. I don't sing.
It's my fucking birthday. man.
Let's see what you got.
Hmm.
[sighs]
[birds chirping]
[softly] Shit.
[♪ playing "Future
Days" by Pearl Jam]
♪ If I ever were to lose you ♪
♪ I'd surely lose myself ♪
♪ Everything that I
have found dear ♪
♪ I've not found by myself ♪
♪ Try and sometimes
you'll succeed ♪
♪ To make this man of me ♪
♪ All my stolen. missing parts ♪
♪ I've no need for anymore ♪
♪ I believe ♪
♪ And I believe
'cause I can see ♪
♪ Our future days ♪
♪ Days of you and me ♪
[♪ stops playing guitar]
Well...
- That didn't suck.
- [chuckles lightly]
[Ellie lightly chuckles]
[wincing]
I understand.
Your arm.
Happy birthday. kiddo.
[♪ light music playing]
- [Ellie] Is it a bow and arrow?
- [Joel] Nope.
[Ellie] Is it water guns?
- [Joel] No.
- Is it... a dinosaur!
- You're not gonna guess.
- Wait. wait. wait. wait. wait.
Is it a "lotter" of kittens?
A "lotter"?
You mean a litter?
A litter of kittens? Really?
- Really. And no.
- Fuck.
Is it a convertible?
[Joel] The hell are you
gonna do with a convertible?
- [Ellie] Drive it.
- We cross here.
How do you even
know where we are?
I found it on patrol.
You know. Jesse was 16
when he started going on patrols.
- Is that right?
- Don't get me wrong.
I love counting vegetables
and shoveling sheep shit.
I'm just saying. I think
I could be more useful
outside the wall.
You'll get on
patrols eventually.
You should enjoy
being a kid for now.
Oh. because childhood has
been such a joy for me so far.
You've been 16
all of four hours.
We're not sending you
out until you're trained.
You're gonna need
somethin' called patience.
Jesse said he'd
train me if you let him.
Is there somethin' going
on between you two?
Excuse me?
You spend a lot
of time together.
- [giggling quietly]
- Is it funny?
- [laughing] - I see the
way you look at him.
I got a keen eye for
these sort of things.
- Uh. I don't think you do.
- Alright. none of my business.
But. uh. has
anyone talked to you
about the birds and the bees?
Oh. you mean dicks and vaginas?
- Jesus.
- I tell you what.
I promise you. I
won't get pregnant
if you let me train
for patrols. Deal?
I'll see what I can do.
Okay. how much longer. man?
[sighs] We're here.
Oh. my God.
It is a dinosaur!
- Joel!
- Like it?
[Ellie panting]
Yeah. Likes it.
[♪ gentle music playing]
- [grunting]
- Whoa.
Whoa. whoa. Ellie.
- [grunting]
- Ellie!
Oh. my God. Careful.
I'm on a motherfucking
dinosaur! [chuckles]
- Joel. there's a museum!
- Yeah. I know!
If you don't fall off
the goddamn T-Rex.
I'll take you there.
[Ellie] [whispering]
This is so cool.
How long have you
known about this place?
A while.
Well. then what the fuck?
I was saving it
for a special day.
You see? Patience.
Oh. yeah. I've heard of that.
Huh.
[water dripping]
[metal squeaking]
It works?
Somebody must have greased it.
[Ellie] Can you
imagine being up there?
- Would you like to?
- Like to what?
Go to space?
[softly gasps]
[birdsong]
[Ellie] [whispering] Is it real?
It's real. That one
went up and back.
Apollo 15. 1971.
[♪ gentle music playing]
Well. open it.
[Joel chuckles]
[metal door creaking]
- [whispering] You got it.
- [Ellie sighs]
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
You're going up to space.
You need a helmet.
[grunting]
Pick one.
[glass shattering]
[♪ gentle music playing]
How's it smell in there?
Like space. and dust.
Well. good. Then. you're ready.
[grunting]
[hatch door thuds]
[Ellie imitating lasers firing]
[imitating static]
People of Discovery. set! Abort!
[switches clicking]
They sat right here.
[Ellie chuckles]
- Happy birthday. kiddo.
- What's this?
This is something that
took a mighty effort to find.
Play it.
[seat creaking]
Close your eyes.
It'll be worth it.
[Walkman clicking]
[NASA Public Affairs Officer]
Thirty seconds and counting.
Astronauts report it feels good.
T-minus 25 seconds.
Twenty seconds and counting.
T-minus 15 seconds.
Guidance is internal.
Twelve. eleven. ten. nine.
Ignition sequence starts.
[spacecraft whooshing. rattling]
Six. five. four. three.
two. one. zero.
- [rockets booming]
- All engines running.
Liftoff! We have a liftoff.
32 minutes past the
hour. liftoff on Apollo 11.
[rattling and
booming decreasing]
[♪ gentle music playing]
[birdsong]
I do okay?
Are you kidding me?
[both laughing]
[Ellie sighs]
This is nice.
- We should do this more.
- Yeah. In.
You okay?
Yeah.
[rain pattering]
[rain continues]
[Ellie] [giggling.
muffled] Stop.
[people laughing]
[laughter continues]
- [banging]
- [Ellie] Fuck.
Joel. what the fuck?
Exactly. What the fuck?
- Get outta here.
- No. wait.
What... what are
you even doing here?
You're supposed to be on patrol.
I came home early to...
surprise you for your birthday.
- [Ellie] [whispering] Oh. yeah.
- Seventeen. by the way.
Well. I'm 19. so...
I'm gonna go.
- Fuck is that?
- Fuck.
It's not done yet. it's gonna
look better when I fill in...
- [Joel] Leave.
- Right.
[Ellie sighing]
So. all the teenage
shit all at once. huh?
Drugs. and tattoos. and sex.
Experimenting with. uh.
with... [stammering] with girls?
It wasn't sex. and it
wasn't a fucking experiment.
You don't know
what you're sayin'.
We'll discuss this later.
when you're yourself.
- [door slamming]
- [sighs]
[thunder rumbling]
[rain falling]
[thunder continues rumbling]
[rain pattering]
[heavy thudding]
[Ellie grunting]
- The hell are you doing?
- Moving into the garage.
The hell you are. Ellie. let go.
It's the middle of the night.
It's pissin' rain out there.
Now. get this back on the bed.
There's no heat or
running water in the garage.
- You can't stay there.
- Okay. fine.
Okay. you want to have
this conversation? Fine.
You may not like the
rules. but this is my house.
No. it isn't. You don't own it.
They gave it to
you. Sorry. to us.
You don't own anything.
[rain continues pattering]
Look. I'm s-sorry
that I got a tattoo.
and smoked weed. and
fooled around with a girl.
Except. I'm not.
Maybe. um...
Maybe it's a good thing for
you to have your own space.
Just give me a few days
and let me fix things
up a little out there.
Okay.
Come on.
[sighs] Thanks.
Sure.
Can I see?
- Did it hurt?
- Yeah.
But kinda good.
It's actually not bad.
Better than the. uh. one I
made on your guitar anyway.
I never did ask. What
is it with the moths?
Um. nothing. Just...
I just read about them in a
book on dreams and stuff.
It's kind of symbolic.
Oh. right.
Yeah. like change and...
and growin' and such.
It's late.
Yeah.
Well. good night.
Night.
[door creaking]
- [door opens] -
[people chattering]
[door closes]
[Joel] Hey.
You guys study. uh.
dreams and stuff. right?
Is there a "Doctor Is
In" sign on me like Lucy
from fuckin' Peanuts?
Yes. some doctors
studied dreams.
The dumb ones. mostly.
So. a moth.
That probably means
change and... and growth?
No. that would be a butterfly.
Oh. So. what's a moth?
Death.
If you believe in that shit.
Why?
[footsteps receding]
[door opens]
[door closes]
[♪ soft music playing]
[poster rustling]
Okay. so I've been thinking...
or wondering... no. thinking.
uh. for a while now...
about Salt Lake City.
I just want to understand it.
So. I wrote down some questions.
Okay?
Okay.
One. if the Fireflies
spotted us a mile
from the hospital.
how did they get surprised
by an entire group of Raiders?
Two.
If the Raiders could
kill all those soldiers.
and Marlene. and you had
to carry me the whole time.
how did we get away?
Three. if there are
dozens of immune people.
- why hasn't anyone heard...
- [knocking]
[knocking]
[Joel] Ellie?
Uh. coming.
- [clearing throat]
- Whoa.
Already dressed.
I figured I'd be waking you up.
Uh. nope. I had
trouble sleeping.
Huh.
Well. guess what?
That works out great
for your birthday present.
You're 19 and
you've been patient.
So. I told 'em I
was okay with it.
- With what?
- Your first patrol.
- I'll grab my coat.
- And a gun.
[crow cawing]
[horse chortling]
[Ellie] So. what's the
record for number of kills
on a training run?
Zero. This is the
safest trail we got.
Gotta start easy.
Ah. great. Happy birthday to me.
- Come on. binoculars.
- Why? There's nothing out here.
I know. but this is
about learnin' the ropes.
So. pretend. okay?
It's part of the rules. You
stick with your partner.
scan the countryside.
be ready for anything.
- Oh. shit.
- What?
There's a little squirrel
fucking a big squirrel!
We should probably report that.
Fine. we'll skip the
scannin' for now.
But this is nice. right?
Reminds me of the old days.
just you and me on the trail.
I know you got stuff
going on. but it'd be nice
if we could do this
kind of thing more often.
Spend time together.
Yeah.
- You okay?
- Yeah.
- It's just. you look...
- No. I...
- There's nothin' on your mind?
- No. nothing.
[dispatcher] [over radio] Cache
Creek. this is Jackson. Come in.
- Go for Cache Creek.
- Infected north of Pinnacle.
Eugene and Adam need backup.
You're the closest we've got.
- [horse chortling]
- I'll be there in ten.
Tell them to dig in.
- Go back to Jackson.
- No.
Ellie. it's not safe. Go back.
I'm not your fucking kid. Joel.
I'm your partner.
We stick together.
[horse neighing]
[Joel clicking tongue]
[♪ ominous music playing]
We'll hike down from here.
Faster than the switchback.
[♪ suspenseful music playing]
- [distant screeching]
- [distant gunshot]
You remember what I taught you?
I'm your back. You're mine.
[♪ suspenseful music continues]
[mysterious noise approaching]
[horse whinnying]
Come on.
[leaves crunching]
♪
Oh. shit. Eugene.
[Joel] Ellie.
You clean?
Uh...
No.
- Are there any more?
- Joel.
Are there any more?
Other than me?
No.
- Whoa.
- Okay. okay. Look.
Please. I... I... I figure
I got about an hour.
So. this is what we do.
We go back to the gate.
They let Gail out.
keeping her at a safe
distance. of course.
And I... I say...
goodbye.
We can't do that.
Yes... yes. we can.
- Yes. we can.
- You're empty.
[groaning]
No. [stammering]
Joel. I gotta go
back. I gotta see her.
I got things I gotta tell her.
Things.
- You don't understand.
- I do.
But we have rules.
and it can't happen.
Wait.
- Whoa.
- Hold out your hand.
Huh?
Hold out your hand.
Now. count slowly.
clearly. from one to ten.
One. two. three.
four. five.
six. seven. eight.
nine. ten.
He has time.
We tie him up and
we bring him back.
Joel. let him see
his fucking wife.
Please.
[sighs]
[breathing heavily]
Get the horses. bring
them down the trail.
I'll start walkin' with him.
we'll meet up with you.
I promise.
Go ahead. ten feet.
Thank you.
[foliage rustling]
[Eugene panting]
It makes you cold.
The Cordyceps.
I didn't expect that.
[sighs] Which. uh. way?
Head right.
[Eugene shivering]
It's beautiful.
[♪ ominous music playing]
Oh.
I need you to not turn around.
No.
Uh. you can't...
you can't do this to me.
Joel.
If you have last words for
her. I'll pass them along.
[Eugene] Last words for her?
No. no. I need... I
need her last words!
For me!
I'm dying.
I'm terrified. I. uh...
I don't need a view.
I need Gail.
To see her face. Please.
Please let that be
the last thing I see.
If you love someone...
you can always see their face.
[♪ somber music playing]
[sighs]
♪
I see her.
[♪ somber music
continues playing]
[foliage rustling]
[hoofbeats]
I'm sorry.
I'm gonna radio ahead
and let them know.
When we get
there. I'll... I'll tell Gail
what she needs to
know. and nothin' more.
It's the right thing to do.
Ellie.
I had no choice.
[crow cawing]
Uh. he was bit
when we found him.
And. uh...
Well. he wanted to tell
you that he loved you.
And. uh. he wished he could
say goodbye to you in person
but he didn't wanna
put you in danger.
[crying] No. no.
[Joel] And he
wasn't scared. He...
He was brave.
And he ended it himself.
[sighs]
[sobbing]
[Ellie] That's not
what happened.
He begged to see
you. He had time.
Joel promised to
take him to you.
He promised us both.
[softly] And then. Joel
shot him in the head.
[breathing heavily]
That's...
Get away. Please.
Get away from me. please.
You swore.
[Gail sobbing]
[Gail] [sobbing] No.
[♪ "Little Sadie" by
Crooked Still playing]
♪ Standing on the
corner reading a bill ♪
♪ And up stepped the
sheriff from Thomasville ♪
♪ He said. "Miss. is
your name Brown? ♪
♪ Remember the night
you shot Sadie down?" ♪
♪ I said. oh yes. sir.
but my name is Lee ♪
♪ And I murdered Little
Sadie in the first degree ♪
♪ First degree and
second degree ♪
♪ Got any papers. will
you read 'em to me? ♪
- [♪ song ends]
- [Dina laughing]
That was good. yeah?
[people cheering]
Oh. okay.
Yeah. he's fallin' apart.
I'm gonna get him to bed.
- You're gonna miss the countdown.
- I'll come back after.
[singer] Okay. The
next one is a little slower.
Save me some of that.
Say goodnight to Uncle Grumpy.
- Goodnight. Uncle Grumpy.
- [Tommy chuckles]
- Night. kiddo.
- See you next year.
See you next year.
[♪ "Ecstasy" by
Crooked Still playing]
- [Maria] You okay?
- Hm?
Yeah. I'm fine.
What I said today about
you being a refugee
probably came off as ungrateful.
- No. it's okay.
- Well. I am grateful.
You mean a lot
to us. To all of us.
But especially to me and Tommy.
What I'm trying to say
is. Uncle Grumpy is family.
And family helps each other out.
if you need it.
♪ Oh. when shall I
see Jesus and reign... ♪
Hey. it's a family event.
Sorry.
In a church. Dykes.
- [Ellie] Fuck did you just say?
- [Dina] Ellie. no.
Ellie. hey. No.
[crowd gasping]
You get the hell out of here.
[Maria] Seth. Let's...
- [Seth grunting] -
Let's take a walk.
Come on. Let's go.
Are you okay?
What is wrong with you?
I don't need your fucking help.
Right.
[♪ gentle. somber music playing]
[♪ strums guitar]
♪
[♪ guitar continues
playing faintly]
[♪ stops playing]
What are you drinking?
Coffee.
- Where'd you get it?
- Um...
[smacks lips] The people
that came through last week.
- Mm.
- I'm a little embarrassed
for what I traded
to get it. but...
it's not bad.
I had Seth under control.
Yeah. I know.
And I don't wanna ever hear
about you taking me off patrol again.
Okay.
So. Dina.
Is she your girlfriend now?
No. No. she...
It was just one kiss.
Didn't mean anything.
I don't know why she did that.
But...
you do like her?
[sighs] I'm so stupid.
Look. I don't know what
Dina's intentions are. but...
well. she'd be
lucky to have you.
You're such an asshole.
You lied to me.
You looked me in
the eyes and you lied.
and it was the same face.
Same fucking look.
But I think I knew already.
I knew this whole time.
So. I'm gonna give
you one last chance.
Tell me what happened
with the Fireflies.
If you lie to me
again. we're done.
Were there other immune people?
Were there Raiders?
Could they have made a cure?
[sniffling]
Did you...
And Marlene?
[sighs]
Making a cure...
would've killed you.
Then. I was supposed to die.
[sniffling] That was my purpose.
My life would have
fucking mattered!
But you took that from me!
You took it from everyone.
Yes.
[sighs]
And I'll pay the price...
because you're gonna
turn away from me.
[breathing heavily]
But if somehow I had a
second chance at that moment...
I would do it all over again.
Because you're selfish.
[choking up] Because I love you.
[whimpers] In a way you...
you can't understand.
Maybe you never will.
But if that day should come...
if you should ever
have one of your own...
well. then...
I hope you do a
little better than me.
[Ellie sniffling]
[sighs deeply]
I don't think I can
forgive you for this.
But I would like to try.
[♪ gentle music playing]
[rain falling]
[thunder rumbling]
[thunder crashing]
[♪ soft music playing]
[♪ music swells]
[♪ gentle music playing]
[♪ music fades out]
>>>>oakislandtk
www.opensubtitles.org
Free Gift Cards and Tech Items with
Southwest Points: www.fairylandshop.me